>>[THEME MUSIC]
And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>JEFFREY MISHLOVE: And
very importantly, we
developed the concept
of virtue and character.
The ancient Greeks
themselves did.
And that concept
was, in particular,
elaborated by the Romans.
And so you hear-- I believe
it's the philosopher
Epicurus, amongst
others, who said
your fate is your character.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Who was that guy?
Well, that's Doctor
Jeffrey Mishlove, PhD
You've seen him on television
programs-- noted author, as
well-- and just a great
researcher into the paranormal.
He's a clinical
psychologist who has
been dealing with this for
now-- Jeffrey, how many years?
>>MISHLOVE: About 40.
>>NOORY: 40 Years?
[CHUCKLES]
You don't look a day over 45.
>>MISHLOVE: I had more
hair when I started out.
>>NOORY: I love it.
How did you start out?
What actually happened?
>>MISHLOVE: I had personal
experiences, George,
that were so earth
shaking, I made a decision
when I was in my
early 20s that nothing
could be more important
than studying this field.
>>NOORY: And what a
great field it is.
I'm obsessed with it.
When I do the Coast to Coast
radio show, of which you've
been on several times
with us-- and by the way,
you do a great job
on that-- I can't
get enough of this, when
we deal with telepathy
and intuitiveness
and consciousness.
I love it.
I can't stop.
>>MISHLOVE: It's my passion.
It's your passion.
And I'm sure the viewers
feel the same way.
That's why you're here.
>>NOORY: Yeah, absolutely.
And for a lot of people
who don't know this,
my late aunt was my father's
cousin, Dr. Shafica Karagulla.
And Shafica was a
psychiatrist who decided years
ago in her practice, since
she's no longer with us-- died
tragically in an
episode that we'll
talk about later-- that
she wanted to devote
her practice into the field
of telepathy and consciousness
and intuitiveness.
Wrote a book called
"Breakthrough to Creativity,"
and that'll tell you
how small this world is.
You knew her.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes I did.
I knew her.
I brought her to
Berkeley in 1972.
She was part of a Frontiers
of Consciousness symposium
that I organized at the time.
>>NOORY: I remember
talking to her a few years
before she died tragically
in an episode of-- this
is what we're told-- a
radio of all things--
thank God it wasn't my
program she was listening
to at the time-- fell into a
tub, and she got electrocuted.
>>MISHLOVE: Oh.
>>NOORY: Just a
tragic way to die.
But I remember her telling
me to come out to Los Angeles
to visit her-- she
lived out in that area--
because she knew
I was into this,
and I was starting to learn it,
and I was doing broadcasting.
I never had a chance to
really sit down and talk
with her about this field.
So I'm glad you did.
>>MISHLOVE: I did indeed.
>>NOORY: She was a
pioneer, wasn't she?
>>MISHLOVE: She certainly was.
She referred to it as
higher sense perception.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MISHLOVE: Rather than
extrasensory perception.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>MISHLOVE: And she seemed
to be very much influenced
by the idea that we are
being guided by-- I guess
you could call them adepts.
Highly evolved people,
humans, some of them
in the physical plane, some of
them not in the physical plane.
And they teach us
sometimes in our dreams.
She talked about, for
example, one of her patients
who had dreams every
night of being in a school
and receiving
spiritual teachings.
And she noticed other
people in the classroom.
And on one occasion
in her dream,
she was able to identify such
a person who lived across
the country-- I think
from LA to New York--
>>NOORY: I love it.
>>MISHLOVE: --actually
managed to contact that person
and learn that he was
having similar dreams.
>>NOORY: When you look at these
aspects of what's happening,
I'm sure you ask yourself,
how does this happen?
How does this work?
What does it mean?
Have you gotten any
of those answers
to those questions, Jeff?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I
think it's fair to say
that the traditional Western
notion that all of this
is impossible, that it goes
against our understanding
of how the universe
works, I think
it's fair to say at this
point that that is not
a good argument any
longer, that if we look
at new developments in physics
and in biology, in cosmology,
in mathematics, even higher
dimensional mathematics,
for example.
There's every reason
to think that the world
of the paranormal--
particularly parapsychological,
which is my specialty--
that it's not
inconsistent with
what we're learning
in other fields of science.
>>NOORY: You had a
television program
called "Thinking Allowed"
that aired on a number of PBS
stations around the country.
You now have "New Thinking
Allowed," which is on YouTube.
And people can simply
find it with that name.
>>MISHLOVE: They can go
to newthinkingallowed,
A-L-L-O-W-E-D, dot com.
And we just started
this year after a hiatus
of over a decade.
And so far, I've done
over 40 interviews.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
Good for you.
>>MISHLOVE: Thank you.
Thank you for mentioning it.
>>NOORY: What
drives you, Doctor?
What pushes you into this field?
Because this is an unusual
field for a lot of people.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes.
Well, to me, nothing
could be more important--
both in terms of the very
profound personal experiences
that I've had, but
also as a scientist.
This is a
paradigm-changing field.
It's a field that tells us
more about the deep nature
of the human being and
about consciousness itself
than any other discipline.
And it's extremely important.
And hundreds of
people-- hundreds
of thousands of
people, in fact--
I understand this network
has a million subscribers.
People are hungry
for information.
And yet, I through a lot of
hard effort and heartache,
have a doctoral degree
in parapsychology.
I earned it in 1980 at the
University of California
at Berkeley.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>MISHLOVE: And to
this day, George,
in spite of enormous hunger in
the populace for information,
I'm still the only
person in the world
with an accredited doctoral
diploma in parapsychology.
And that saddens me.
So one of the reasons I'm
doing the television work
and I teach at a couple of
schools that can't offer
doctoral degrees in the field,
but at least I teach courses,
is I want to see the day when
there are many doctoral degrees
offered in parapsychology.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
It's--
>>MISHLOVE: It's kind of lonely.
>>NOORY: --an interesting field.
It is lonely to be out there.
It's lonely at the top
sometimes, as they always say.
Do you have any regrets
doing what you do?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, there have
been some very painful moments.
You know, the
skeptics can be-- not
genuine philosophical
skeptics, but the debunkers who
just want to have nothing
to do and not allow
this field to continue, they
can be vicious at times.
And I had to, for example,
after I got my doctoral degree
from Berkeley, there
was an effort launched
by these debunkers who
knew nothing about me
to get the university to
withdraw the diploma that
had been awarded.
>>NOORY: Aww, unbelievable.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Why are
they so cutthroat?
Why are they so vindictive?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, to
put the best face on it,
they are concerned about
what they called the rising
tide of superstition.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MISHLOVE: They think
that there's a lot
of irrationality--
>>NOORY: They're purists.
>>MISHLOVE: --going on.
And they would point to
things like how many people
in the United
States don't believe
in the theory of evolution
and don't accept science.
And so they lump
parapyschology together
with a lot of irrational beliefs
that are held in this society.
>>NOORY: Well, what
they don't realize
is if you mesh science
with the paranormal world--
parapsychology, for example--
everybody wins, because there
is a science to what you do.
It's real.
So science needs to start
investigating how in the heck
does this stuff happen.
>>MISHLOVE: You probably
know that, in 1969,
the American Association for
the Advancement of Science
evaluated the work being
done in parapsychology,
and admitted The
Parapsychological
Association, which is a small
organization of about 200,
300 professional people
working in this field,
it's now affiliated with the
major scientific organization
in the world, really, the AAAS.
>>NOORY: My aunt was a living
example at the time, Jeffrey.
She was a medical doctor.
She was a trained psychiatrist.
And she turned her
practice into dealing
with this kind of unusual,
strange, but at the same time,
very important field.
>>MISHLOVE: And in
so doing, she was
able to honor the inner
experiences of her patients.
>>NOORY: There's no
question about that.
>>MISHLOVE: That's
very important.
>>NOORY: She was
a believer, too.
She was a believer.
And she started
because things were
happening with her patients.
She would see things
that we're very unusual.
And she said, there's
something to this.
And so she flipped.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, there are
now hundreds, maybe thousands,
of serious professionals
in different disciplines
who have their eyes open
and know what's going on.
And they're being
supported every day
by just looking at the
news in, for example,
quantum teleportation that is
being reported on all the time.
There are new discoveries
in quantum physics
that they don't necessarily
explain the paranormal,
but at least you can say they
are not inconsistent with it.
>>NOORY: Let's go
through different areas
of the parapsychological world.
And I want to start it
by talking about someone
we both know, Uri Geller.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Uri, of course,
has been on "Coast to Coast"
with me a number of times.
For people who may
not know who he is,
he is the person who's got
this ability to change things
with mind over matter.
He can bend spoons and he
can do all kinds of things.
The spoons may be
more of a parlor item,
but it's a great visual.
He came down for some
ridicule years ago
when he was on "The Tonight
Show" with Johnny Carson.
And he froze, and he wasn't
able to bend the spoon.
And Johnny made a
little joke about that,
and it kind of followed
Uri all over the place.
But I think he's the real deal.
>>MISHLOVE: I
sponsored Uri Geller's
first major public appearance
in the United States
at the University of
California Berkeley
when I was a student
back in 1972.
>>NOORY: Wow.
And he was young too then.
>>MISHLOVE: He was very young.
And we've been friends
ever since then.
I have had many,
many observations
about what he has done
and what other people have
seen with him.
I've been with him
in the laboratory
and in personal circumstances.
I can't claim that I know that
everything he does everywhere
is legitimate.
He does have a background
as a stage magician.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MISHLOVE: But I can say
that in numerous occasions,
he has done things that the
skeptics cannot explain away.
>>NOORY: That's absolutely true.
I can cite a couple examples
we've seen him bend spoons.
But when he's been
on the radio show,
he has asked
people-- via radio--
to get their dead clocks
that have stopped running.
And he said, put
them by the radio,
and let's use our energy.
And then I'm starting to get
these emails from people,
Jeffrey, my clock's working.
It hasn't worked in 10 years.
The ironic part of all of
this was, years later we
re-ran the program in one
of our best of segments.
In that segment, he
talked about the radio.
He's not live by any means.
He's on tape.
The same thing happened.
I started getting
emails from people.
I mean, I didn't even
know this program
was running that weekend.
I started getting emails
from people saying,
my clocks are running.
My clock's running.
And I'm going, what am I getting
these emails for from a show I
did two years ago?
And I looked at the
schedule, and there
was the best of running.
We have a producer
who picks the programs
and runs them on a Saturday
night, Sunday night.
And sure enough, the
clocks worked again.
The guy's got some kind of
energy force around him.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, it might
be this, that psychokinesis,
which is--
>>NOORY: Which is what that is.
>>MISHLOVE: --the
parapsychological term
for mind over matter may
be much more widely spread
in the general population
than is typically thought.
And it might be
the case that when
people hear about
Uri Geller doing it,
it sort of frees up everyone
else's ability a little bit,
so you get what the
parapsychologists call
the mini-Gellers happening
all over the world.
And there have been
thousands of them,
thousands of them, reported.
>>NOORY: Let's talk about
pre-cognition to start.
What exactly is that?
>>MISHLOVE: You could
think of pre-cognition
as backward causality.
And I can tell, amongst
parapsychologists,
there's sort of a
debate going on as
to whether the phenomenon
we're looking at
is pre-cognition
or something else.
Because some people
say that you can't
know the future because
the future hasn't happened.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MISHLOVE: That seems like an
obvious philosophical point.
And if that's the
case, then people who,
in experiments of pre-cognition,
who can identify the future,
could it be that
they're actually
using some other
skill, that they're
looking at the probabilities?
Or could it be that
it's multiple universes,
that they're seeing
a particular future,
it may or may not happen?
Sometimes they get very
precise descriptions
of things that don't occur.
Or could it be, as was
the case in the book
I wrote, "The PK Man,"
an individual who
was using psychokinesis
to say this and that event
will happen, and
it was something
he caused rather than predicted.
This is a big mystery
and a big controversy
within parapsychology today.
There are some people who insist
that psychokinesis is not real,
it's all pre-cognition.
So you can't be sure
at this point in time.
>>NOORY: So this
pre-cognition I have found,
Jeffrey, is
manifested when people
are in a different
state of mind,
when they're a little
more relaxed, when
they're a little more positive.
It seems like that scope
makes it work better.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, not
just pre-cognition,
but all of the forms of
extrasensory perception--
retro-cognition,
clairvoyance, telepathy,
anything that requires a
receptive mind works better
when people are
relaxed and feeling
very positive about themselves.
Whereas psychokinesis, or even
sending a telepathic message,
seems to work better when
a person is more aroused.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Clairvoyance is what?
>>MISHLOVE: Clairvoyance,
it's French for clear seeing.
And it would be an example
of extrasensory perception
across space in real time.
Like it's sometimes
called remote viewing
these days, where a person
can simply relax and obtain
information about
what another person is
doing maybe 100 or 1,000
miles or 10,000 miles away.
>>NOORY: Can you, with
this kind of ability,
plant seeds in other
people's minds?
>>MISHLOVE: That
would be, for example,
telepathic hypnotic suggestion.
And the Russians began
researching that--
>>NOORY: They loved that.
>>MISHLOVE: --back
in the 19th century.
And in the early
20th century, there
are some good examples of that
reported in the literature.
So I would say
it's a possibility.
>>NOORY: They had some
success stories there.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes.
>>NOORY: That's exciting and
dangerous at the same time,
isn't it?
>>MISHLOVE: A lot of this is
dangerous at the same time.
I think we have to appreciate
that only 300 years ago, which
is a relatively short time,
we were burning witches
at the stake.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MISHLOVE: And I guess
that's one of the reasons
that the debunkers are so afraid
of this, because how can we
handle the idea that
somebody can throw
a hex at you, for example?
>>NOORY: And it works.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
>>MISHLOVE: When I did the
research on "The PK Man"
on one occasion--
>>NOORY: And that was about
an individual, wasn't it?
>>MISHLOVE: Ted
Owens was his name.
>>NOORY: Yep, OK.
I remember that.
>>MISHLOVE: He had a lot of
extraordinary psychokinetic
abilities, and he was
demonstrating them
right and left to me.
But I was on the phone
with him on one occasion.
And he had promised
me he was going
to create three UFO appearances
within a particular time
window.
And two of them had happened.
And I said to him, well, you
haven't done the third one yet.
And he was angry at me
for having said this.
>>NOORY: Did he go ballistic?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, he
hung up the phone.
He slammed the phone.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MISHLOVE: And within
minutes, I began to feel ill.
>>NOORY: Like he was doing
something to you, huh?
>>MISHLOVE: You know the
feeling you get in your throat
when you know, uh oh,
I'm about to get sick?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MISHLOVE: A little scratchy
feeling in your throat?
And I thought, oh, there's
nothing I can do now.
It's going to happen.
I'm about to have
a cold or a flu.
And 45 minutes later,
he called me back.
And he said to me, without
explaining anything,
he said Jeffrey, I'm sorry.
I apologize.
I will never do
that to you again.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MISHLOVE: And the cold lifted.
My throat felt
better right away.
So I think most people
are not prepared to live
in a world like that,
because amongst other things,
it means that you've got
to treat every other person
with respect.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>MISHLOVE: In Ted Owens'
case, he would come around
and he would tell people, I
can do this and I can do that.
And he wanted to show them.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MISHLOVE: And I have
168 demonstrations
that he provided, roughly
two thirds of them
occurred as he said they would.
Not 100% by any means,
but you wouldn't
expect these things to
occur more than one time
in a hundred.
So to thirds is a
great batting average.
In any case, he would
make these claims,
and people would laugh at him.
They'd say, you're a fool.
You're an idiot.
And then he would say,
well, you think so?
I guess I have to
teach you a lesson.
>>NOORY: So how did Ted
Owens have this power?
How did he have this
ability to do what he did?
And I assume he had it
since he was a baby.
>>MISHLOVE: He claimed that
he was working with aliens.
This was his story.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>MISHLOVE: He called them
the space intelligences.
He claimed that he had been
guided by them since childhood,
that he was taught a special
language to communicate
with them, a symbolic language.
And in order for him
to learn that language,
they arranged for
him to hold down
many different professions.
He was a jazz drummer.
He was a bull whip
artist in a circus.
He was a high speed typist.
He was a parapsychology
researcher with J. B.
Rhine at Duke University, yes.
But he said he had to have all
of these different backgrounds
in order to understand their
complex symbolic system.
>>NOORY: Did you
believe that story?
>>MISHLOVE: No.
>>NOORY: You did not?
>>MISHLOVE: To be honest, I--
>>NOORY: But he
did have some gift?
You're convinced of that?
>>MISHLOVE: Oh yes,
he clearly had a gift.
And my co-author on the
original book of "The PK Man"
was D. Scott Rogo, one
of the now deceased
but very knowledgeable
on the whole history
of psychical research
and parapsychology.
And Scott believed
that there wasn't
anyone in the history
of the field who
exhibited such unusual, large
scale psychokinetic abilities.
Ted Owens said he was the
first person since Moses
to have these.
>>NOORY: So he was kind of
boisterous though, wasn't he?
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, you could
call him a braggadocio.
>>NOORY: Over the top?
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah, completely.
He was like Pecos Bill or
Paul Bunyan, larger than life.
>>NOORY: And I assume
he's not with us either?
>>MISHLOVE: He died in 1987.
At the time of his death, in a
farmhouse in upstate New York,
lights were spotted in the sky
hovering above the farmhouse.
So I cannot discount
his story about the--
>>NOORY: ETs.
>>MISHLOVE: Yes, he called
them the space intelligences,
other dimensional beings.
He went into great
detail about them.
I don't know that it's
true, so I don't believe it.
But I don't dismiss it, either.
It's one of those--
>>NOORY: Why would
he make it up?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, people
make these things up
because they don't want to
believe that they themselves
are doing it.
There was a psychokinetic person
in England, Susanne Padfield,
she was the wife of a famous
physicist named Ted Bastion.
And she had
psychokinetic abilities.
They were tested
in the laboratory.
And at one point, she gave a
talk called Psychic Support
Figures.
She said she, at
one time, believed
that there were spirits who were
doing this because she couldn't
accept it was herself.
Finally, she came to accept
that it was really her,
and she didn't need
the support figures.
>>NOORY: That is-- it's
amazing how this all works.
I'm convinced it's real, and
I'm convinced some people have
better abilities than others.
Though we all have
the ability, don't we?
>>MISHLOVE: It seems like
any other human ability
that there's a bell curve.
Some people have it
to an extreme degree,
some people hardly
have it at all.
But by virtue of the fact
that we have consciousness,
it has to do with the very
nature of consciousness.
We all have some.
>>NOORY: Is it the process
of the brain, Jeffrey,
or is it something outside
of the physical realm?
>>MISHLOVE: I would
say that consciousness
is much more than the brain.
I'm kind of comfortable with
the philosophical notion
of pantheism or
panpsychism, which
suggests that
consciousness goes right
down to subatomic
particles and atoms
and molecules and
single-celled creatures,
that there's consciousness
at every level.
>>NOORY: So tell us more about
the new program, New Thinking
Allowed.
This is exciting.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, as
I'm a parapsychologist,
I hope to interview
lots of other people
who are working professionally
in the field of parapsychology
in order to create a library of
real parapsychologists talking
to other real parapsychologists
so that, in the future,
people who wish to
be parapsychologists
will be able to use
this as a resource.
>>NOORY: That's a great program.
Are you starting to get
YouTube hits on that?
>>MISHLOVE: We are.
We have only been at
it for a few months.
We have over 1,000
subscribers now.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>MISHLOVE: The original
"Thinking Allowed"
is also on YouTube,
and they have
had over four million hits.
So I'm sure we'll get there.
>>NOORY: So what has been
your most important influence,
Jeffrey?
>>MISHLOVE: When I created an
interdisciplinary, individual,
doctoral major at Berkeley
in parapsychology,
one of my faculty
members was Charlie Tart.
And he's a very experienced
and wise parapsychologist.
>>NOORY: Into this big time.
>>MISHLOVE: He's done
a lot of research
on out of body experiences
and on training
extrasensory
abilities, which became
my focus as a graduate student.
>>NOORY: Yeah, I would say when
you specialize in something
here, what would you say is the
topic you think you're the best
at?
>>MISHLOVE: Training
psychic abilities.
That was my focus.
I have a book out on it called
"Psi Development Systems."
And I think it's very important.
It's not the same as
the research field,
but I'm most
interested in training
and in practical
applications, because I
think as more and
more people are
comfortable with
their own abilities,
and are finding that
they can use them
for the benefit of everybody--
in law enforcement,
in financial forecasting,
in archeology, in medicine,
and in healing-- that there'll
be general acceptance.
And I look forward to a
day, probably in the far
distant future, where
human beings everywhere
are just comfortable and
are willing to accept this
as a natural part of what
it means to be human.
>>NOORY: And I'm sure you've
seen better students than some?
>>MISHLOVE: Yup.
I've had some great students
I have to say, yeah,
in the schools where I teach--
the University of Philosophical
Research and the
Holmes institute.
I asked students to write
about their own experiences.
And it's amazing some
of the papers I get.
>>NOORY: Is there a common
denominator, Jeffrey,
between those people,
those students,
who are good at this field?
>>MISHLOVE: No.
You know, I wish I
could say there--
>>NOORY: Like if you looked
at five great students
of parapsychology, could
you say, all five of these
are positive thinking people,
or all five of these people
take certain supplements,
or something like that?
>>MISHLOVE: (LAUGHING) It's
definitely not supplements.
But yes, I suppose
it's fair to say
they have a positive
attitude towards themselves.
>>NOORY: They believe in it.
>>MISHLOVE: Towards
life in general.
That probably is, now
that you mention it,
a common denominator.
But sometimes, I get
stories from people
who are in the military.
They're in battle.
And for example,
in one instance,
a person wrote about
a situation where
they're in Vietnam in battle.
And they just hear a voice.
It says, turn around.
Turn around now.
And it enabled them to turn
around and kill a Viet Cong who
had their rifle aimed at them.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>MISHLOVE: It saved their life.
>>NOORY: They picked
that up, yeah.
I used to, in high
school, some girl
would be sitting in front of me.
And I'd try to send her
thoughts-- hey, hey, come on.
I'm a kid in high school, right?
I'd send her thoughts to get
her to turn around or something
like that.
And I still could never
figure out if I did it
or if just the process of
time she turned around,
but it was always fun
to experiment with that.
>>MISHLOVE: There's an
interesting line of research
having to do with the
feeling of being stared at.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>MISHLOVE: People get like a--
>>NOORY: It's a
vibrational tingling.
>>MISHLOVE: --tingle in the
back of their neck sometimes.
So researchers put subjects
in an isolated room.
And then from another room,
watching them on video,
would be other people
at random intervals.
And they measured their
physiological responses
to when they were actually
being stared at on video
and got successful results.
>>NOORY: That's great.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
So it seems to be
that in daily life,
we're all using these
abilities, but sort of just
below the level of awareness.
>>NOORY: What's the best thing
about being a parapsychologist?
It can't be because you
make a million dollars year.
That's not it.
>>MISHLOVE: No, it's
certainly not it.
Parapsychologists
are not well paid.
There's very little funding in
the field of parapsychologist.
>>NOORY: That's unfortunate.
>>MISHLOVE: It is unfortunate.
You have to be a person
who's self-motivated.
who's willing to overcome
difficulties and overcome
challenges and approach
it more or less as a passion,
as a love, first and foremost.
And when you do
that, you'll find
that you're part of a
community of similar people.
And I would say that being
part of that community
has been a great joy and
pleasure throughout my life.
>>NOORY: That's good.
>>MISHLOVE: I just love the
other people in the field,
and I feel like I
get a lot of love
and support back from them.
>>NOORY: Is it growing?
The field?
>>MISHLOVE: Parapsychology,
professional parapsychology,
is maybe only 200 or
300 people in the world.
>>NOORY: Gosh, that's nothing.
>>MISHLOVE: But think of
your viewers, for example.
Think of the millions of people
who are hungry for information
about this.
>>NOORY: Oh, they love it.
>>MISHLOVE: And I
have to consider you.
Even though you're not a
professional parapsychologist,
you are working professionally
in a related field
so that you're part
of the community.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
I guess you must feel pretty
good being the only one.
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I suppose
I could be proud of it,
but after 30 years?
It's a big sadness,
to be honest.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you
wish there were more.
>>MISHLOVE: I sure do.
I sure do.
>>NOORY: Is that
going to change?
>>MISHLOVE: I hope so.
I would say, if somebody is
able to watch this interview 200
years from now, they'll
probably look back and say,
wow, it did change.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
That could be.
Or they may be
communicating via telepathy.
Who knows?
>>MISHLOVE: But it's
going to take time.
The opposition, the fact
that after 35 years,
not a single doctoral
degree in parapsychology
has been awarded elsewhere
anywhere in the world
speaks a ton of words
about the resistance.
>>NOORY: Volumes, volumes.
I think the universities
probably thank this is fu-fu,
and we're not going to
give degrees in this.
>>MISHLOVE: They're embarrassed.
They're afraid of the horse
laugh, which is the skeptic's
biggest weapon.
>>NOORY: They don't get it.
They don't get it.
Years ago, the government
had a remote viewing program,
because some of the great
remote viewers of our time
are still alive, and they
appear on my program.
They claim that it stopped.
I'm not sure it did.
It may have stopped
with these individuals,
but it may still be going on.
What do you think?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I
have no direct knowledge
that it is going on.
Everybody I talk to
says that it's not.
But if it were going on, the
people who were involved--
>>NOORY: You would have--
>>MISHLOVE: --would not be
afraid to talk about it.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MISHLOVE: And it might
be smart on their part,
because if it were
publicly discussed,
it would just be
embroiled in controversy.
If I were in the government and
wished to do remote viewing,
I would keep it very quiet.
>>NOORY: I would too.
Taxpayers would say,
this is a waste of money.
What are we spending it for?
And this and that.
>>MISHLOVE: Oh, there's plenty
of good research at this point
to suggest that it's a
legitimate phenomenon.
And in m the government
commissioned a study
to review the 20 year program.
And they hired a
skeptic, Ray Hyman,
and a proponent, Jessica Utts,
a statistician who is currently,
I believe, the president
of the American Statistical
Association.
And they both agreed that
there is a phenomenon there
that hasn't been explained.
>>NOORY: That is exciting.
It really is.
What drives you, Jeffrey?
At this point, what
drives you to keep
looking for these answers?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I
took Ted Owens' training
because he convinced me
that something was going on.
And I figured I better learn
as much as I can about him.
And when I began
the training, he
said to me, what do you
want to do with this?
And I thought,
well, I don't really
care to make UFOs appear
in the sky, or control
hurricanes and tornadoes or
earthquakes, as he had done,
or power blackouts.
And I said, I want to be able
to communicate to the world
at large the truths of the
esoteric parapsychological
world.
And it was months
thereafter that I
started the original
Thinking Allowed TV series.
We were carried on
about 100 stations.
So it was, at that
time, successful
beyond what I could
have imagined.
And I hope to continue
that work moving forward.
>>NOORY: I'm going to do a
little experiment with you
on what I call sending.
What do you call that again,
when you send something?
>>MISHLOVE: Telepathic sending.
>>NOORY: I'm going to
send something to you.
>>MISHLOVE: OK.
>>NOORY: Between one
and five, now there's
a 20% chance that
you're going to get it
right just by guessing.
So let's see what happens.
I'm to send you a number.
And I want to close
your eyes, Jeffrey,
and turn your head, because I'm
going to show the camera that.
Turn your head, all right?
So you can't see me.
Here's the number I'm
going to flash at Jeffrey.
So clean your head.
I sound like I'm
the instructor here,
but just pretend your
head is like a chalkboard
and it's empty.
There's nothing there.
And I am going to write the
number on your chalkboard right
now.
What is it?
What's that number?
>>MISHLOVE: I'm
going to say one.
>>NOORY: Four.
>>MISHLOVE: OK, well I missed,
because first I got a three,
then I got a two,
then I got a one.
So--
>>NOORY: Now I want
you to do it to me.
>>MISHLOVE: OK.
>>NOORY: All right.
Hold your hand up to
the camera so they
know what the number is.
>>MISHLOVE: Oh, OK.
>>NOORY: And when you're
ready, flash it to me.
>>MISHLOVE: OK.
>>NOORY: I saw two and a three,
but I'm going to say two.
>>MISHLOVE: It was a two.
>>NOORY: See?
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You're a
better sender than I am,
or maybe I'm a better receiver.
>>MISHLOVE: You're a
better receiver, who knows?
>>NOORY: Do you need both?
>>MISHLOVE: Well, I think every
parapsychological experiment
involves all the
people involved.
It's not just this receiver or
not just the sender or not just
the experimenter.
Every person contributes in
one way or another-- including,
for example, your crew here.
>>NOORY: So that was not set up.
That was not set up.
So I had a 20% chance, one
to five, of getting it right.
But what are the odds
of hitting it like that?
So there's something there.
I mean, I actually-- did you
think three also for a moment?
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Yeah,
because I saw that.
I saw two and a three, but the
two looked a little stronger
on my mental chalkboard.
>>MISHLOVE: Mmhm.
>>NOORY: How do
you explain that?
[CHUCKLES]
>>MISHLOVE: Well, you
can't read too much
into a simple one or two tries.
>>NOORY: That is a great
scientific experiment.
>>MISHLOVE: I encourage
people to try and familiarize
themselves with the 150-year
history of this field.
These tests have been going
on since the mid-1800s.
1800s There's a huge database.
And my wish is for people to dig
into it, become more familiar,
even with popular
accounts of this,
because that's the
basis upon which people
can make a fair evaluation.
>>NOORY: Do you find, Jeffrey,
that this ability makes one's
life a little more pleasant?
>>MISHLOVE: I find
that, yes I do.
>>NOORY: It's a great gift.
>>MISHLOVE: Yeah.
I'm a happy person.
I can tell you that.
>>NOORY: I can tell.
>>MISHLOVE: In spite
of whatever obstacles
I've had to deal with.
>>NOORY: Well, we're human.
Human beings get hit
with all kinds of things.
>>MISHLOVE: Right.
>>NOORY: But you have to be able
to pull yourself away from it,
and it's fantastic.
So if people want to
get a hold of you,
how do they find you again?
>>MISHLOVE:
www.newthinkingallowed.com,
A-L-L-O-W-E-D.
>>NOORY: Jeffrey, thanks
for being on the program.
Really appreciate it.
>>MISHLOVE: Thank
you for having me.
>>NOORY: This is one of
my favorite subjects--
clairvoyance,
telepathy, the unusual,
being able to use your mind
to do incredible things.
It's a power we all possess.
You just need to work at it.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."